>> Brian Holt: A function
is a bit of reusable code.
We create something that takes
in some sort of input and
just gives you some sort of output.
That's kind of the gist
of what functions do.
I'm gonna show you one of the most
basic functions you can create.
To make this a little bit bigger.
On line 1 through 3 there.
Function addTwo.
In between the parenthesis here, it's
going to accept some sort of input, right?
Then whatever you return
is going to be the output.
The name of this function is addTwo.
As you may imagined, it takes
whatever number that you give it, and
returns to you that number + 2.
So here, I have a finalAnswer and
I call, that's what,
when I have these two parenthesis here,
you're calling a function, right?
I'm calling this function
with the parameter of 5.
And 5 is just being passed
in here to number, right?
So that's how this corresponds.
So this 5 is being passed
in here to number.
And now number, in this specific instance,
represents 5, right?
And then I'm returning 5 + 2, right?
And that's getting stored
here in finalAnswer.
So looking at this, if I to add 2 and
I give it 5,
what do you expect final answer to be?
7, right?
Because 5 is being passed in here to
number, and we're returning number + 2.
So when I console.log(finalAnswer),
>> Brian Holt: Then I get 7.
So what happens if I do const
finalAnswer2= addTwo(10)?
>> Brian Holt: What do you think
finalAnswer2 is when I log it out?
finalAnswer2, and
as you can see there, I get 12.
So that's what's powerful about functions
is I get to encapsulate logic into
a function, and I can reuse it over,
and over, and over, and over again.
I can now add to it anything I want.
Obviously, this is a bit of a contrite
example because I could have just added 2
and it would have been fine.
But, the principle stands.
Now, functions don't have
to take in any arguments.
So I could just have a function that's
called,
>> Brian Holt: giveBackFive,
this is going to be
the worst function ever.
But all it does is just return,
>> Brian Holt: 5.
>> Brian Holt: So
this takes no arguments, right?
And it just gives you back 5.
So if I just said
console.log(giveBackFive) and
I call the function with the parenthesis.
>> Brian Holt: Lo and behold,
it gives you back 5, congratulations.
We took an already worthless function,
and we made it more worthless.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: But just to show you like,
it doesn't have to take any arguments,
it can take two arguments, right?
So I could do function,
>> Brian Holt: add,
and it could take in num1 and num2.
And that's how you
separate it with commas.
>> Brian Holt: And
we can say return num1 + num2.
now if you go down here and
say console.log(add(5, 10).
>> Brian Holt: And again, that's how you
separate it, it's just with the commas.
You can see there that
we're getting 15 back.
>> Brian Holt: Now hopefully,
it's not too confusing that I can put
finalAnswer3 up here,
finalAnswer3 = add(5,10).
And then console.log it down there, but
since I'm not really doing anything else
with the variable, you're fine to just
kinda move that into there, right?
finalAnswer,
>> Brian Holt: Either one works, right?
So I can actually put the add
call directly into there.
>> Brian Holt: So
this is the big pro tip here.
Whenever you see parentheses like this,
this means a function is being called,
right?
Just so you know, when we call console.log
here, that's calling a function.
That's why we're using parentheses there,
log is a function.
So look for parentheses like that,
and that's when you know somewhere,
a function is being called.
Functions are called lots of things
in lots of different languages,
there's some minor differences, but
you'll hear him called procedures
sometime you'll hear him called methods.
In JavaScript in general,
they're called functions.
And there's some minor differences there,
but largely the same, they're all more or
less the same thing.
So just, we're going to go
with the functions today.
Sometimes I will use the word method
because it's ingrained in my brain from
college.
But when I say method,
just assume that I mean function.
Let's go a little bit
more complicated here,
I have a function here called greet, okay?
greet takes it in firstName, lastName,
honorific, which is like, Mr, Mrs.,
Captain, Dr., or something like that,
and the greeting of some sort, right?
And this returns a template string, right?
Remember the backticks,
we talked about these previously.
And it does some templating
with these various parameters.
And just to drill in,
parameters are just variables that you're
accepting from somewhere else, right?
So if you see in this list up
here between the parentheses,
that's called a parameter,
which is just a variable, right?
It's a variable that's going to
be accepted from somewhere else.
Okay, so
it takes in all of these parameters.
It takes in firstName, lastName,
honorific, and greeting,
and then it returns to you this string
of all that stuff being concatenated
together into a nice sentence, right?
So it'll do the greeting and
it'll say honorific, lastName,
I'm extremely pleased you could join us,
firstName,
I hope you enjoy your stay honorific,
lastName, right.
So you can see here, console.log, and
here I'm calling greet with Brian Holt,
Lord, obviously, and salutations, right?
So you can see here in the first line,
Salutations Lord Holt!
Thank you.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: I'm extremely pleased you
could join us, Brian!
I hope you enjoy your stay, Lord Holt.
Okay, now I want you to note here,
the order here is very
important because that's the order it's
going to be passed into these parameters.
If I messed up Holt and Brian,
>> Brian Holt: Holt and Brian.
I mean, you can call me Lord Brian,
that's fine.
But you don't have to.
But you can see what I'm saying here.
The order of these things is important
because that's the order that going to be
put into those variables.
>> Brian Holt: So back to that.
But what is great about this is
I wrote this greeting function,
as you might imagine, like you're reading
some sort of like, hotel website.
You don't want to type that out every
time, you can reuse it over and
over again just by creating
a function like this, right?
So now I call with Jack,
Sparrow, Captain, A-hoy.
You can say A-hoy Captain Sparrow!
I'm extremely pleased you could join us,
Jack!
I hope you enjoy your stay,
Captain Sparrow.
>> Brian Holt: Again, yeah, order is
important, make sure you get that.
And you can have as many or
as few parameters you want.
There's an unlimited amount of
parameters that you can give it, right?
You can have a function
with ten parameters.
If you have much more than like,
three or four,
you probably want to like
make smaller functions.
So, yeah.
It's called calling a function whenever
you put those parentheses because you
can have a function there, and then
whenever you want to call the function,
you put the parentheses afterwards.
If you don't put the parentheses
afterwards, it doesn't call the function.
So going back here to our
worthless example of giveBackFive,
if I say console.log giveBackFive
without the parentheses here,
it's going to give me this
weird function thing, right?
It's not 5, and what it's actually doing
console.log is actually trying to log
the function itself, right?
It's not calling the function,
it's actually represents the function
itself, which is not what we want, right?
We want the result of the function, which
means that we have to call the function.
So if you see anything like this where
it says like Function giveBackFive or
something like that,
it means you didn't call the function.
Which means you need to go back and
put the parentheses in there.
Does that makes sense?
Okay.
It's an easy thing to slip up,
that's why I try and call it out.
So so far,
I've been showing you this return, right?
Whatever your return is going to be given
back if someone calls the function, right?
So if I call greet,
this is giving me back that string.
I could throw this in a variable,
I can console.log it out,
I can pass it into another function,
I can do whatever I want.
Sometimes functions don't return anything,
which means they would just be undefined
if you tried to capture the return value.
So that, go ahead?
>> Speaker 2: Can you show us what happens
in there if you take out the parameters?
If you just say, console.log greet
with the quote or something.
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna be like,
it's still going to work,
it's just going to say
undefined everywhere.
>> Speaker 2: That's really interesting.
>> Brian Holt: So
if you don't pass anything in here,
it's not going to error out,
it's just going to be undefined.
>> Brian Holt: So whenever you try and
make an undefined into
a string it actually gives you
back the string undefined.
Undefined, undefined,
undefined, it's profound.
Okay, does that answer your question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Generally,
you don't want things to be undefined,
as a rule of thumb.
>> Brian Holt: So
going back to what I was talking about,
sometimes functions don't return things,
right?
Notice in this function here,
logOutYourHome doesn't return anything,
right?
So in this particular case,
it just takes city, state, and country,
and it just logs it out to the console.
And it doesn't actually
do anything about it.
So notice I'm not doing anything
here with the return value.
It all does is just return it out.
Sorry, it consoles it out.
>> Brian Holt: Does that makes sense?
So you don't have to return anything,
that is optional.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about that?
>> Speaker 2: So the reason you would
wanna return something is if you have
another function that then uses it?
>> Brian Holt: If you're depending on
some sort of output from it, yeah.
It just depends on what you're doing.
So this would be useful if you had
some sort of like, program and
you were just trying to debug it
like where people were from and
you didn't want to have to put that
console.log in every single place,
you could just make this function
called logOutYourHome and
just keep passing those parameters in.
Okay, so that is more or less functions.
All the functions I showed you so
far where one line but they can be many,
many lines, right?
Often, most frequently,
there could have been many lines, right?
Like I could have done up here,
const answer =
num1 + num2, and
then return answer, right.
So there can be for loops in here,
and if statements, and
whatever you want to put there.